# 1D Radiative Transfer (1D-RT) code and analysis for "Quantifying Lyman-α emissions from reionization fronts" from [(Wilson et al. 2024)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14622)

The 1D-RT code was written originally by Christopher Cain and then modified, improved, and maintained by Bayu Wilson. All other analysis is done by Bayu. 


## Using the 1D-RT code

### 1) Clone the repository 
```
git clone git@github.com:bayu-wilson/1DRT_quantify_reion_fronts.git
```
### 2) Gather input data (if necessary)
If you would like density skewers from another simulation, the input data should be placed in the ```input_files/``` directory. The code is set up to read inhomogeneous density skewers used in [Davies et al. 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0855). Contact [bwils033@ucr.edu](mailto:bwils033@ucr.edu) to request these skewers. Otherwise, uniform density skewers can be automatically generated by setting ```input_grid -> FALSE``` in ```user_inputs.h```.

### 3) Parameter space range to be be explored
The rate of incident ionizing photon production and simuluation time are scaled such that the ionization fronts will cover a portion of the Lyman alpha efficiency parameter space. This is calculated for each inhomegeneous skewer in ```parameters_input/April24_fd_input_params.py``` and for each uniform density skewer in ```variableLum_input_parameters.py```. 

```
cd parameters_input/
module load anaconda3/2020.11
python [filename]
```
The outputs are tables of simulation input parameters that are used to explore the parameter space of the Lyman-alpha efficiency in terms of I-front speed and spectral index. See ```parameters_input/readme.txt``` for more details.

### 4) Set up user-input parameters
Other user-input parameters can be edited in ```user_inputs.h```. These parameters can be updated manually or automatically using one of the ```pbs_scripts/*.pbs``` files. The parameter space studies use the parameters defined in the previous step. See ```pbs_scripts/readme.txt``` for more details.

### 5) 1D-RT outputs
1D-RT will automatically produce output files located in ```output_files/gasprops/[simulation_directory]```. Each simulation is in its own directory. For the uniform density runs, these directories are named ```ud_pp_a=[X]_L=[Y]/``` where X is the spectral index and Y is the initial luminosity. For inhomogeneous density runs, these directories are names ```fd_pp_sk[Z]_a=[X]_L=[Y]``` where X and Y are the same as before and Z is the skewer number. Within each directory, each file contains on-the-fly outputs including incident spectral index, incident flux, gas density, and emitted Lyman-alpha produced from collisional excitations with file names ```n[n_otf]gasprops.txt``` where n\_otf is the number corresponding to the otf step which is equally spaced in time. It will also save the incident spectrum (I(nu)) saved in every grid cell as the I-front passes through. This file is located in the simulation directory above but with file name ```Inu_output.txt```.

### 6) Submit batch job
Ensure the job scripts are set up correctly and then you can submit the job on a supercomputer. For example, this is what I did to submit the job on Expanse.
```
cd pbs_scripts/
sbatch [job script name].pbs
```

### 7) Reading and organizing output data
Here we read in the output files to produce a table of on-the-fly outputs (like IF speed and incident flux at the IF location). This is saved in ```results/[otf directory]/otf.csv``` where the otf directory is defined within ```results/array_results.py```. 
```
cd pbs_scripts/
sbatch go_resultArrays.pbs
```

### 8) Plotting routines and interpolation table
We plot the flux ratio parameter space as well as an interpolation table that can be used given alpha and vIF. The interpolation tables are located in ```results/interp_tables/```
```
cd plotting_routines/
module load anaconda3/2020.11
python Frat_parameter_space.py
```

### 8) Other plotting routines
```
python flux_ratio.py
python plot_coll_exc_coef.py
python profileIF.py
python emissivity_dependencies.py
```





